Caption: so without further ado for me I will
Caption: hand you over to red to talk about all
Caption: the applications to block choke the art
Caption: cryptocurrency thank you rob
Caption: hi guys thanks for coming before I start
Caption: this one of different big thanks to all
Caption: of our sponsors without them this event
Caption: couldn't be possible and it's really
Caption: awesome to see the sort of support at
Caption: these corporations and these companies
Caption: give to to the developer community in Wi
Caption: so thank you very much a quick show of
Caption: hands
Caption: does anyone own any cryptocurrency have
Caption: in the past
Caption: Wow okay cool you know brief small
Caption: disclaimer I don't own any I never have
Caption: but the technology that underpins it and
Caption: that big blockchain is something it
Caption: really fascinates me and I think there
Caption: are some some real useful applications
Caption: outside of cryptocurrency hence the chat
Caption: so what you can expect from this session
Caption: a bit understanding a blockchain
Caption: if you you've heard about it but you
Caption: don't really know what it is I'm going
Caption: to explain the P building blocks for it
Caption: and then of course some real world
Caption: applications outside of cryptocurrency
Caption: what not to expect we will not teach you
Caption: how to get rich on Bitcoin that's
Caption: another chat smart contracts
Caption: unfortunately the length of the chat
Caption: will prevent much depth of discussion
Caption: within contracts maybe next year and a
Caption: live demo I did intend to do a live demo
Caption: I've written a small block Danette
Caption: myself but again session the constraints
Caption: can't prevent that I will make the code
Caption: available publicly and I'll show that so
Caption: grab me on Twitter or LinkedIn or
Caption: whatever and let me know a bit about me
Caption: I'm a developer first and foremost I've
Caption: been programming since 20 odd years I'm
Caption: sorry a little over that I broke my
Caption: first programming qbasic joys and more
Caption: recently I've been involved with
Caption: integration that's been a specialization
Caption: I've done
Caption: I'm currently a team lead like Ron
Caption: mentioned RAC I lead a great team of
Caption: developers and engineers and testers
Caption: they're a fantastic bunch I'm also a
Caption: gamer both playing and developing hash
Caption: tag made with unity and I'm a petrol
Caption: head so I love cars especially fast ones
Caption: if you want to catch me about any of
Caption: those please do so what is bloc changing
Caption: blockchain in its in a simplest form is
Caption: a collection of databases distributed
Caption: across multiple nodes all services
Caption: across everywhere which have data which
Caption: are linked together through crypto war
Caption: Cryptococcus cryptography that's in its
Caption: simplest form it can be referred to as a
Caption: distributed database or a distributed
Caption: ledger it's worth noting and it's more
Caption: caveat that it is possible to have a
Caption: blockchain that isn't distributed there
Caption: isn't much value in doing so and I'll
Caption: get to it later there are some severe
Caption: drawbacks and never can drawbacks to
Caption: blockchain which would rarely prevent
Caption: doing is that making that much value but
Caption: there are three key benefits or three
Caption: key properties of blockchain which make
Caption: it really really cool first of all it's
Caption: immutable so what do I mean by that it
Caption: means that the stuff that's in there
Caption: cannot be changed it can never be
Caption: updated you can add more stuff to it you
Caption: can never change it it's also crustless
Caption: so you don't have to know all those
Caption: nodes that are in the network you you
Caption: don't have to trust them at all and
Caption: that's purely by the mechanisms that are
Caption: in play when stuff is added to the
Caption: blockchain it's inherently trusted it's
Caption: also highly resilient because it's
Caption: distributed you can have millions and
Caption: you can have hundreds of thousands and
Caption: fail and it will still work it's
Caption: possible to have public and private
Caption: blockchains
Caption: public plug games like all the
Caption: cryptocurrencies bitcoins aetherium
Caption: ripple black coin the works you can also
Caption: private
Caption: that for a more specific purpose that
Caption: might be in government or in an
Caption: organization they've been ERP something
Caption: like that and of course like I mentioned
Caption: they can serve smart contracts smart
Caption: contracts have huge benefits and huge
Caption: uses use cases in things like insurance
Caption: and financial industries
Caption: why should you care well CrunchBase
Caption: found 1.3 billion reasons why you should
Caption: care and that's just what they know
Caption: about and that's just for the first half
Caption: of this year and it's worth noting
Caption: that's also just venture capital that is
Caption: not everything that's certainly not
Caption: doesn't include what all these guys are
Caption: doing they're all doing something in
Caption: blockchain somewhere in various days so
Caption: something pilots some of the actual
Caption: production uses but it's clear that if
Caption: they all care about it it's clearly a
Caption: thing so it's worth at least getting to
Caption: know a bit better so it might be awesome
Caption: yourself how does that work well magic
Caption: really okay no sorry the tree cryptic
Caption: cryptography peering and consensus or
Caption: what make it work they form sort of the
Caption: ingredients that make up this blockchain
Caption: pie photography is first and I suppose
Caption: one of the key foundation building
Caption: blocks and it's essentially what holds
Caption: lock chains together Photography serves
Caption: many different uses when you browse a
Caption: website it's got TLS it's photography
Caption: there are I suppose essentially two
Caption: types of groups of good cryptography
Caption: there's encryption which is what you
Caption: would do on your websites and if you
Caption: wanted to share information securely you
Caption: want to encrypt it in one place and
Caption: decrypt another but then this hash
Caption: and hashing is really what what makes
Caption: blockchain work so passion is a
Caption: deterministic method of taking something
Caption: and turning it into a parent garbage but
Caption: it's useful as a verification mechanism
Caption: it's a termina stick and that you feed
Caption: something in and if you the same thing
Caption: in over and over you will get the same
Caption: result at the end every single time it
Caption: is not reversible though so you cannot
Caption: take a hash and then turn it back into
Caption: its original state that doesn't work but
Caption: hashing is what makes it immutable all
Caption: the blocks as in the diagram here you
Caption: can see I'll link together cache for a
Caption: block links to the previous block so if
Caption: a block has hash one two three
Caption: the next block will have a reference to
Caption: the hash of one two three before it now
Caption: how does that actually make it immutable
Caption: well because the hash is generated on
Caption: the data within the block you cannot
Caption: change that data without changing the
Caption: hash so now if you change the hash it
Caption: breaks the entire chain so you cannot
Caption: realistically do that
Caption: peirong is what makes the distributed
Caption: nature or provides a distribution for a
Caption: blockchain across a whole lot of nodes
Caption: it also serves as a mechanism for or
Caption: just finding out new nodes and
Caption: distributing a list of nodes to other
Caption: peers and it's the reason for its
Caption: resilience it's if you use something
Caption: like BitTorrent for example saying you
Caption: can find you can always find a node
Caption: somewhere it'll pick it up it'll find
Caption: it'll discover a hit list of nodes and
Caption: you'll be able to get to those
Caption: regardless of how many go on and offline
Caption: all the
Caption: and peer-to-peer is essentially what it
Caption: is and it's similar to our good old
Caption: friend Napster anyone remember Napster
Caption: yeah yeah
Caption: a donkey either works and one of the key
Caption: one of the nice ways of methods of
Caption: creating a PHP Network is distributed
Caption: hash tables separate hash tables are a
Caption: key value pair of all of your nodes in a
Caption: block and they can all discover each
Caption: other and they can find out what other
Caption: nodes exist in a network and through
Caption: this mechanism you can ensure that even
Caption: if you know it goes on or offline or
Caption: this node goes on the offline you can
Caption: still find it someone else there are
Caption: different mechanisms as well you could
Caption: also build your own custom layer flixel
Caption: layer seven protocol to discover nodes
Caption: if you want to do something like HTTP
Caption: and find stuff like that you could do so
Caption: there are medications to doing so but
Caption: you could do so but this this is the
Caption: most interesting part for me and that's
Caption: consensus so imagine you have a million
Caption: nodes in your network and they all have
Caption: to try and figure out what is the
Caption: blockchain currently look like what is
Caption: the state how do you figure that out
Caption: how does if half of them are all getting
Caption: new information that they need to add to
Caption: the blockchain how do you figure out who
Caption: actually gets to add the next block you
Caption: know one will add it on maybe in
Caption: Austrailia another one in europe oldest
Caption: I don't know I want that block instead
Caption: my books better so how do you do that
Caption: and that that really is what's known as
Caption: a Byzantine generals problem and the
Caption: Byzantine generals problem is a
Caption: fascinating one and it actually spans
Caption: many different disciplines very many
Caption: different domains things like aviation
Caption: systems for example they have to know
Caption: which system is down or which system is
Caption: not down at a point and who can reliably
Caption: fly a plane which system is responsible
Caption: for doing that job at that time and
Caption: that's a problem
Caption: that solved with Byzantine fault
Caption: tolerance
Caption: now the Byzantine generals problem comes
Caption: from the theories that the theory says
Caption: there are several general Byzantine
Caption: generals generals that control portions
Caption: of the Byzantine army and they all want
Caption: to attack the city so in order to figure
Caption: out what they need to do they have to
Caption: agree on plan and any plan that doesn't
Caption: isn't concerted so if part of them leave
Caption: and half of them decide to fight it's
Caption: gonna be failure it's gonna be a
Caption: disaster so they have to either agree to
Caption: retreat or to fight this is further
Caption: complicated by things like treacherous
Caption: generals you know ones that'll will try
Caption: to misinform and they will get another
Caption: general to send his army in and they'll
Caption: go and free or what about they're
Caption: physically distributed that located in
Caption: the different locations geographic
Caption: locations so you're then actually a
Caption: messenger what if a messenger gets lost
Caption: what if what if that messenger is
Caption: actually going and forging his own
Caption: messages so you have to figure out a way
Caption: to to kind of come to a consensus and in
Caption: a blockchain world that's done through
Caption: consensus algorithms this is a form of
Caption: Byzantine fault tolerance and in fact of
Caption: the era at the moment there are two
Caption: primary methods of doing so there are
Caption: others but these are probably the
Caption: biggest proof of work and proof of stake
Caption: proof of work is is fairly common it's
Caption: probably the most common one and it
Caption: involves computational difficulty so you
Caption: compute computing or doing a
Caption: computationally difficult or calculative
Caption: okay
Caption: something it takes a long time to
Caption: effectively work out to prove that
Caption: you've done something and it's valid
Caption: what the does the disincentivizes those
Caption: nodes all those treacherous general that
Caption: want to do something bad because they
Caption: have to invest
Caption: it into doing so but the way it works is
Caption: hashing comes back to our hashing so
Caption: every node will take its block of data
Caption: and it will run a hash of it
Caption: and the difficulty is applied by
Caption: requiring that hash to meet certain
Caption: criteria and it could be something like
Caption: having the first X number of zeros first
Caption: X number of characters of the hash being
Caption: zero now I did a test and I was able to
Caption: get started off with trying to get into
Caption: single zero completed incidentally two
Caption: zeros couple seconds three zeros two
Caption: more seconds four zeros it was up to
Caption: like a minute five zeros then it was
Caption: taking multiple minutes six zeros and so
Caption: on so and the way that's done is that's
Caption: done by taking the data because as I
Caption: mentioned to you before a hash will
Caption: always the data will always have a
Caption: single hash the data entered will always
Caption: have a single value at the end so the
Caption: way you change that value is by adding
Caption: additional data so you'll add what's
Caption: called a nonce
Caption: and a nonce to the end of it will then
Caption: be randomized it and you try it again
Caption: and you try it again and you try it
Caption: again and eventually you'll come up with
Caption: your values and that gives you your
Caption: proof of work proof of stake though is
Caption: somewhat more interesting in some cases
Caption: there are different method mechanisms be
Caption: using proof of stake one of the ones I
Caption: quite like is or burrows or burrows
Caption: algorithm that is effectively a form of
Caption: voting the proof of stakes core
Caption: principle is that you have to have an
Caption: investment in it you have to have
Caption: something that's on value that you're
Caption: going to invest and if you are found to
Caption: be legitimate you will then lose your
Caption: stake in some way this is actually used
Caption: in theorems Kaspar protocol if anyone's
Caption: interested it's quite cool
Caption: it's delegated proof of stake which is
Caption: an offshoot of proof of stake by putting
Caption: all together essentially you have a
Caption: group of nodes communicating over peer
Caption: to peer each node compiles its block and
Caption: hashes it using cryptography the nodes
Caption: the complete nodes are then voted on
Caption: or there are some census that is applied
Caption: to it to identify which node should then
Caption: be applied to the block once that
Caption: agreement is reached the block is then
Caption: distributed or that results as tribute
Caption: and the block is added to the chain so
Caption: practical applications and this is
Caption: really one of the key port parts of this
Caption: chat is I really wanted to highlight
Caption: these there are numerous supply chain is
Caption: an obvious one you can track your you
Caption: track the entire supply chain printer
Caption: when where the materials come from
Caption: processing of them the building of them
Caption: when they're shipped to a shop when they
Caption: are purchased you can track that entire
Caption: journey and this is this lighting comes
Caption: out of a requirement for by consumers
Caption: for more social social responsible
Caption: organizations for more socially
Caption: responsible companies and production one
Caption: example was the WWF not the one with
Caption: Hulk Hogan the one with the nice soft
Caption: Panda they partnered with Seaquest PG to
Caption: do a bait to plate transparency project
Caption: but you know trade and essentially what
Caption: they did was they can track where the
Caption: fish was caught who caught it when it
Caption: was caught where it's processed and
Caption: where it went to so a consumer can go to
Caption: install take a QR code reader QR code
Caption: off of the antenna tuna and know exactly
Caption: everything about it and what that does
Caption: is that stamps out slave trade it's damn
Caption: self unsustainable fishing and it
Caption: addresses unsafe work conditions they
Caption: used the bind platform for that just by
Caption: the way sorry Samantha Jones not the one
Caption: from Sex in the City the other one
Caption: she started origins and raised 1.2
Caption: million dollars in a partnership with an
Caption: M and that was for apparel that was for
Caption: clothing so you can track where the
Caption: cotton came from where it's processed
Caption: and that of course is quite it's quite
Caption: significant and per goal is to end
Caption: modern-day slavery democracy we're lucky
Caption: to have a fairly good democracy here
Caption: much of the
Caption: isn't so lucky so fledgling democracies
Caption: in particular are having some trouble
Caption: this can potentially solve that horizon
Caption: state has got a pilot going in Sumatra
Caption: for community a community pilot though
Caption: but they are hoping to help with the
Caption: general Indonesian elections next year
Caption: but real estate anyone bought a house or
Caption: rented any one oh the pain absolute pain
Caption: well this can help them there the Cook
Caption: County Deeds office they ran a pilot in
Caption: 2016 in 2017
Caption: I'm blockchain where they did all their
Caption: or their real estate all their property
Caption: selling and buying with blockchain super
Caption: interesting hope to go read my favorite
Caption: though how Alicia how ledger is Perth
Caption: based it's an energy kids beer company
Caption: so they have st. effectively used
Caption: blockchain to do everything from carbon
Caption: trading to selling your energy back to
Caption: the grid but that's all I mean any of
Caption: those every single one of them has an
Caption: application for blockchain every single
Caption: one it's not normal rainbows and
Caption: unicorns it's not perfect performance is
Caption: an issue using proof-of-work it can be
Caption: wasteful again proof-of-work network
Caption: size the database gets big aetherium is
Caption: 200 gigs Bitcoin is 100 gig and it's
Caption: immutable you cannot change it so if you
Caption: need to change your data like change not
Caption: for you
Caption: GPU prices and availability we all know
Caption: about that sorry I can't run your recap
Caption: I am being called on time but the
Caption: presentation will be available some huse
Caption: full links for you if you really want it
Caption: but thank you very much
Caption: and I hope you found this somewhat
Caption: useful
Caption: you